# Introduction to Project Reactor
We willl conver below in this module:

* Reactive Interfaces (Reactive Stream specification)
* Reactor classes

## <b>Reactive Interfaces</b>
1. Publisher
2. Subscriber
3. Subscription
4. Processor

<b>1. Publisher</b>

Publisher publishes the events to number of subscribers who had subscribed through subscription.
```java
public interface Publisher<T>{
    //method used by subscriber to subscribe the events generated by publisher
    public void subscribe(Subscriber<? super T> s); 
}
```

<b>2. Subscriber</b>

Subscriber consumes event and ask the producer to emit events on specified rate in subscription.
```java
public interface Subscriber<T>{
    //method called when a subscriber subscribe to a publisher
    public void onSubscribe(Subscription s);
    
    //method called when an element is sent to the subscriber
    public void onNext(T t);
    
    //method called when an exception is occured
    public void onError(Throwable t);
    
    //method called when the all the elements are published.
    public void onComplete();
    
}
```

<b>3. Subscription</b>

This contains the list of subscribers to publisher with the rate in which the events should be emitted.
```java
public interface Subscription{
    //this method is request to publisher for any number of elements, represents the backpressure mechanism
    public void request(long n);
    
    //method called for cancelling the subscription
    public void cancel();
}
```
<b>4. Processor</b>

This can be consumer or subscriber both at a point of time or either of one.

### How Interface work together
First the subscriber call subscribe method on publisher, then a subscription object is created
and then onSubscribe method on subscribe is called with the subscription object created. To start receiving element
or event subscriber need to call the request method of subscription indicating how many elements it can process. If
not called then an unbounded number of elements is requested. Only then subscriber get elements using
onNext method and keeps receiving data until the publisher sends all data, subscriber cancel the subscription
or any exception occur during consumption of element or event. When all elements are sent by publisher then 
onComplete method is called and subscription will be cancelled. When any error occurs then onError method
is called and subscription is cancelled. 


## Project Reactor
Project reactor provides by default support for spring reactive framework, we can use other reactive frameworks as well 
by providing in reactive adapter registry.

Reactor provides the two implementation of Publisher interface.

1. Mono - 0 or 1 Element
2. Flux - 0 or n Element

Mono is used when you want to emit void or single object. While Flux is used for publishing list of values
with respect to number or requested items.

Reactor provide below subscription methods:
```java
public void subscribe()

public void subscribe(Consumer<? super T> consumer)

public void subscribe(Consumer<? super T> consumer,
          Consumer<? super Throwable> errorConsumer)
  
public void subscribe(Consumer<? super T> consumer,
          Consumer<? super Throwable> errorConsumer,
          Runnable completeConsumer)
              
public void subscribe(Consumer<? super T> consumer,
          Consumer<? super Throwable> errorConsumer,
          Runnable completeConsumer,
          Consumer<? super Subscription> subscriptionConsumer)              
``` 

Look code for more explanation. Code has comments as and when required.

